[Music]
good evening I'm
Judy Woodruff on the
NewsHour tonight the
latest from London
the hunt continues
for those behind the
bridge attack while
terrorism becomes a
political football
ahead of the UK
election and a
widening gulf several
Arab countries cut
ties with neighbor
Qatar for allegedly
supporting terrorism
which Qatar denies
then on the edge of
collapse political
upheaval and economic
despair sent
Venezuelans into the
streets in a violent
clash between
protesters in the
government behind us
is a sea of angry
Venezuelans who have
been taking to the
streets since early
April protesting the
government and its
handling of this
country's deepening
crisis also ahead
our politics Monday
team is here to talk
about the new storm
President Trump has
kicked up over his
proposed travel ban
and its fate in the
courts all that and
more on tonight's
PBS news hour
[Music]
two attackers
publicly identified 18
victims still in
critical condition the
numbers headlined the
day's developments
in the London Bridge
attack that left
seven people dead
Saturday night Malcolm
Brabant is in London
and filed this
report police were
in action in East
London again this
morning raiding an
apartment complex in a tire shop
detaining more
people in the wake of
Saturday's attack
we have hundreds and
hundreds of officers
engaged in trying
to piece together
whether anybody else
knew about the
attack or planned or
supported it in any way at all
the three attackers
were shot dead on
Saturday night minutes
after they drove
a van into people
on London Bridge and
then went on a
stabbing spree today
officials named two
of them 27 year-old
grams as odd but was
a British citizen
born in Pakistan
Rashid Redwan claimed
both Libyan and
Moroccan nationality but
was known to the
authorities as an
extremist last night
the Islamic state
group claimed
responsibility the attack
meanwhile campaigning
for Britain's
Thursday general
election resumed today
Labour Party leader
Jeremy Corbyn called
for conservative
Prime Minister Theresa
May to resign May fired back
we've given increased
powers to the
police to be able to deal with
terrorists powers
which Jeremy Corbyn
has boasted he has
always opposed London
Mayor Sadiq Khan
also a Labour Party
figure criticized
me for downsizing
police forces when she was Home
Secretary we have
had to close police
stations cell police
buildings we've
lost a thousands of
police staff Khan
himself drew criticism
for him across
the Atlantic yesterday
the mayor told
Londoners there's
no reason to be
alarmed by the increased
police presence
in the city President
Trump then fire
off a tweet that
said at least seven
dead and 48 wounded
in terror attack and
Mayor of London says
there's no reason
to be alarmed
there's history
here Kant criticised
candidate Trump
last year for his
proposed travel ban
and the candidate
Tim to an IQ test
the mayor did not
respond to Sunday's
tweet but many
argued the president
took him out of
context mr. Trump
followed up this
morning saying pathetic
excuse by London
Mayor Sadiq Khan you
had to think fast
on his no reason to
be alarmed statement
mainstream media is
working hard to sell
it
a White House
spokeswoman followed up
there is a reason to
be alarmed we have
constant attacks going
on not just there
but across the
globe and we have to
start putting
national security and
global security at
an all-time high
away from the politics forensics
officers carefully
searched for evidence
again today but
some semblance of
normalcy returned
pedestrians and cars
were allowed across
London Bridge but
around three of
the city's iconic
bridges the stepped-up
security was
unmistakable on
Westminster Bridge Lake
tourists line up
to take pictures of
Parliament and Big
Ben overnight they
install steel barriers
between the road
and the sidewalk there was some
resistance to the
move but officials
move quickly to get
the protection in
place at Lambeth bridge next to
Westminster it's still a work in
progress as there's
only one barrier in
place on the northbound
side at least
one former high ranking security
official who said
Islamic extremists
should be placed in
internment camps but
Maajid Nawaz a leading anti
radicalization expert
warns against them
in time' is a
preposterous suggestion
and in fact will
only make the problem
worse if we recognize
this as a jihadist
insurgency then we
have to recognize
that we have to succeed
in being able to
isolate the jihadist
insurgents from the
communities they
seek to recruit and
moderate Muslim
spokesman Mustapha field
also believes in
community-based D
radicalization
programs it's this
low-level cowardly
attacks that are now
seeping through
there's nothing
sophisticated about what
they're doing so we
need to make sure
that our policies
bring commuters
together and that
we work together to
confront this evil
ideology this evening
the City of London
held a vigil to honor
the people killed
in the attack this
vigil has been
designed to send a
message of solidarity
and love from
Londoners
there have been about
5,000 people here
there's been a minute
of silence and the
atmosphere right now
seems to be fairly
calm and relaxed
but nevertheless the
police are on high
alert and right
behind me there's
a man being frisked
for now the threat
level in Britain
remains it's severe
that means an attack
is still highly likely
the PBS news hour
I'm Malcolm Brabant
in London in the
day's other news
Saudi Arabia and other
Arab states cut off
all ties with their
neighboring nation
of Qatar sending the
Persian Gulf region
into a new crisis
they accused the
tiny oil state of
supporting terrorist groups and
embracing Iran u.s.
military officials
said that the crisis
will not affect the
10,000 American
troops in Qatar we'll
take a closer look
right after the news
summary President
Trump will not invoke
executive privilege
to try to block
former FBI director
James Comey from
testifying before
Congress this week a
White House spokeswoman
said today that
mr. Trump decided
that he wants to quote
facilitate a swift and thorough
examination of the
facts it's been
reported that Comey
will testify that
the president
pressured him to stop
investigating
campaign ties to the
Russians the president
today endorsed a
push to privatize
the nation's air
traffic control system
he said he wants
an independent
organization to oversee
operations and
upgrade technology
separate from the
Federal Aviation
Administration at a
White House ceremony
the president said
millions of US
travelers stand to benefit we're
proposing reduced wait times
increased route
efficiency and far fewer
delays our plan will
get you where you
need to go more
quickly more reliably
more affordably and
yes for the first
time in a long time
on time Democrats
quickly rejected
the proposal House
Minority Leader Nancy
Pelosi called it
quote a tired Republican
plan that both
sides of the aisle
have rejected tragedy
today in an awning
factory outside
Orlando Florida the
local sheriff says
that a man who had
been fired from the
plant in April shot
and killed five
people and then
turned the gun on
himself John Robert
Newman was armed
with a handgun and a
hunting knife
investigators say that he
slipped into the giant
factory through a
rear door in Mexico
the ruling party
held a slim lead
today in the race to
control the country's
most populous
state the pr i--'s candidate for
governor of mexico
state narrowly led a
leftist challenger
with nearly all the
votes counted in
Sunday's election a
victory could boost
president Enrique
Pena Nieto who has
single-digit approval
numbers and faces
re-election next year
the US Supreme Court
agreed today to
hear a major privacy
case involving cell
phone data at issue
is whether police
need a warrant to
access data about a
phone's location
wireless carriers
received thousands
of such requests each
year so far lower
courts have ruled for
the police and on
Wall Street the Dow
Jones Industrial
Average lost 22 points
to close at 21,000
184 the Nasdaq fell
10 and the S&P 500
slipped 3 so to come
on the news our
diplomatic relations cut
off between Qatar and several
middle-east nations
the implications for
the US on the ground
in Venezuela with
an economy and free
fall our politics
Monday duo on the
latest controversial
comments from the
president and much
more
[Music]
for more than 35
years the so-called
Gulf Cooperation
Council or GCC has
United the nations
of Kuwait Saudi
Arabia Bahrain Qatar
the United Arab
Emirates and Oman
the goal to put the
wealthy predominantly
Sunni countries of
the Persian Gulf
behind common cultural
political and military
objectives but
overnight long
simmering tensions
between Qatar and
several of its fellow
members and other
regional states burst
into full-fledged
diplomatic crisis
Saudi Arabia Bahrain
the UAE and Egypt
among others broke
off diplomatic
contact and suspended
commercial ties
with the Qatari
government but more on
these dramatic
developments I'm joined
by Joe Joyce Karim
she's the Washington
bureau chief of Al Hayat is an
international Arabic
daily newspaper
Joyce thank you very
much for being with
us why did this happen
well as you said
Judy this is a very
dramatic escalation
we've been covering
you know tense
relations between
Qatar and Saudi Arabia
and the UAE for a
while but we it hasn't
ever gotten to a point
where they're not
only closing embassies
they're sealing
of the border they're
blocking air space
and maritime access
to Qatar Qatar as
you know is a country
smaller than the
state of Connecticut
it's completely
dependent for its
food supplies for 40%
of its food supplies
come from Saudi
Arabia so this is
dramatic unprecedented
escalation it comes
at a time where we
are told that both
the Saudis and the
Emiratis have had
enough there is almost
a realignment in the
region there is two
camps today if you
want to say the the
Pro Islamist movement
camps where Qatar
is now boxed and and
the more closer to
this administration
the Saudi and the
Emirati and the
Egyptian camp and this
is where things are
going from here so
among other things we're here
that these five
countries are saying
Qatar is two
extremists that it that
it's been sponsoring
terrorism the
Qataris are say that
say that's not true
what's what's really
going on well it's
again this different
alignment and the
Regent post Arab
Spring post 2011 Qatar
is seen today as a
host of leaders from
Hamas from Taliban
actually just tonight
the Qatari I mean
will Emir will be
hosting Shakur dahui
who's a well-known
extremists in the
region for an iftar so
the Islamic Islamic
cleric so in that
sense Qatar is seen
as very close has
box itself in with
these Islamist
movements and this
has been a problem
with its relations
with Egypt with with
Saudi Arabia and with
Emiratis and what
we're seeing unfold
as a clash is a rift
within the GCC on
the direction forward
whether it's in
counterterrorism or
other but we know
that some of these
countries that are
accusing Qatar have
themselves at times
supported some of
the extremist opposition
forces in Syria
for example so is it
so clear that Qatar
is doing something
different from what
these other countries
have been it's a I
think Syria is a
very complicated
battleground but if
you look at Syria
itself the main group
that is affiliated
with al-qaeda formerly
known as jabhat
al-nusra is supported
by Qatar it's the
head of the group Jelani gives
interviews on an Al
Jazeera there's a
Financial Times story
today that Qatar
might have indirectly
paid a ransom of 1
billion dollar that
went to extremists
on both sides in in
Syria so this has
become problematic
within the GCC and I
think they do feel
bolstered after the
Trump visit to do
more on that front the
countries that are
because it's true
that this is half
in just a week or
two after President
Trump was there in
Saudi Arabia but
listen let's quickly
talk about Joyce
about how this
affects the region and
relations with the
u.s. going forward I
mean this is a very
tense time in the
region this is an
almost Arab cold war
happening within
the Gulf Cooperation
Council I think
the u.s. tried to
distance itself today
a bit the Pentagon
reiterated its
defense relations with
Qatar that I did air
base continues to
be active that the
counter Isis effort
will not be impacted
by this as we speak
also Judy I think
the Kuwaitis are
trying to mediate
to find a common
ground in the coming
hours the Emir of
Kuwait will be heading
to Saudi Arabia
tomorrow if they can achieve a
breakthrough you know
given the list of
demands that Saudi
and UAE have put
together that means
maybe the citizens
of Qatar will not be
expelled from these
countries unfair to ask you this
question and ask for
a quick answer but
is there fear this
could lead to all-out
war I don't think any
side at this point
is interested in a military
confrontation and
I think Qatar given
that it's a small
country and most of
Qatar strategic depth
is within the Gulf
region I don't
think Qatar has an
alternative but to
fix this with with
its neighbours a Saudi
official tells me
that you know the
only way this is there
would be an exit is
if Qatar went away
and you know forgot
its old habits so
we're looking
they're looking at a
change of behavior
from Qatar not just
demands as it happened in 2014
Jois Kurama tough
subject thank you very
much I think I got
we appreciate it
thank you so much
[Music]
after years of
recession skyrocketing
inflation and
hardship the oil-rich
country of Venezuela
is spiraling into
social and economic
collapse many of its
people have been
taking to the streets
on an almost daily
basis for the last
two months to demand
that president
Nicolas Maduro
stepped down with the
support of the
Pulitzer Center for
crisis reporting
special correspondent
Nadia droste and
videographer Bruno
Federico went to
Caracas to find out how
the wave of uprisings
is creating a
political crisis
Venezuela today an
economy and freefall
triple digit
inflation dire
shortages of nearly
everything from
food to medicine the
social and economic
crisis that started
intensifying after
President Nicolas
Maduro took over from his iconic
predecessor Hugo
Chavez is tail spinning
into a political one
his anti-government
protests rocked
the capital Caracas
chavismo the populist
form of socialism
branded by Chavez
that provided services
for the poor paid
for by profits from
the world's largest
oil reserves is
teetering on the
verge of collapse
behind us is a sea
of angry Venezuelans
who have been taking
to the streets
since early April protesting the
government and its
handling of this
country is deepening
crisis but now that
President Maduro is
pushing ahead with
his controversial
plan to convene a
citizen's assembly
and write up a new
constitution opposition
protesters say
that a new constitution
will consolidate
government power and
severely shrink the
political space for
the opposition he's
demo we need a solution
to problems that
Venezuelans confront
every day like
shortages in security
the streets had
turned violent since
early April over 60
people have been
killed and a thousand
injured as a result
of protests related
violence most protesters marched
peacefully but a
violent minority has
prompted the
government to call them
terrorists an
intensifying crackdown has
led to more than
2,500 arrests many of
them are represented
by attorney Jorge
Ramos who runs a
legal assistance group
called the Venezuelan
penal forum Ramos
says there's a benefit for the
government to detain
people and the
benefit is intimidating
this specific
group of society why
not to demonstrate
not to say things
against the government
but even intimidation
tactics can't seem
to quell the
discontent of so many
Venezuelans as the
crisis bleeds into
every aspect of life
Lizbeth vieta's
has worked for nine
years as a taxi driver shuttling
passengers to and
from the Caracas
Airport to support
herself her son and
daughter glory Beth
she was never a fan
of Chavez Norma
daughter but now that
tourism and business travel has
plummeted she blames
the government for
sending the economy
down the tube va
would you think
around you there are
lots of changes two
years ago we could
make three to four
daily runs today only
one now vieta's can
barely cover the
cost of food and
her daughter's law
studies at university
but her daughter
is still studying
luckier than others
the new c'mon you I
have peers who can't
pay their tuition
it's more important to
eat in your situation
than to study as
been as well as
crisis deepens the
chorus of voices
calling for change
grows
Michael penfold the
university professor
in Caracas and a
fellow at the Woodrow
Wilson Center says
that chavismo is
failing to understand
the political and
economic conditions
have changed but the
problem is that this
revolution which
right now holds a
minority is trying to
run the country as
if they continue to
hold a majority and
as if they still had
this hegemonic
sort of impulse of
controlling society
and controlling
institutions opponents
have protested
delayed regional
elections and the
attempt to strip
authority from the
opposition held Congress
maderos decree to
create a Constituent
Assembly to draft a
new constitution a
move they fear
will favor only his
priorities was the
last straw this
resident of a caracas
barrio says it is
yet another political
distraction lucky
5th avenue hospital
and you see a lot of
problems here and we
know that this man
is inventing fictions
instead of looking
for solutions he's
looking to entrench
himself in power we
don't want this what
we want are solutions
in my family five
people have left
the country fleeing
what there's crime
you don't know when
you leave when you'll
come back I spent
18 hours to buy
four pounds of corn
flour eighteen hours
that's not human
it isn't but she
has a roof over her
head which is more
than this group of
people who find
themselves living on the
streets scavenging for food
amidst the garbage
it's a desperate but
organized activity they know the
schedule of the
garbage truck and wait
at restaurants exactly
when the garbage
is taken out carry
the bags over to the
Riverside and comb
through it Pedro who
didn't want to be
identified by his full
name used to work as
a graphic designer
but can't find work
I found myself short
of money when I was renting
and the solution was
the streets he says
more and more people
join them every day
we'll give you good
yogi year flood
everyone who comes
here rides skinny and
gains weight because
in reality people
may say that we eat
garbage but now many
of them envy us because we have
something in our
stomachs as more and
more of Venezuelans
find themselves in
dire situations more
are pulled towards
political groups
in the opposition
coalition in search
of a response to the
crisis like the
voluntad popular party
at its helm is Freddy Guevara
one of several young
opposition members
of Congress who are
playing a key role
in organizing the
anti-government
marches we reach
the point where all
constitutional doors
have been closed on
us that's pushed
everyone to head out in
Nevada and other
hard-line government
opponents it all
comes down to one
central demand that
Maduro leave there's
no way to solve all
these problems with
Maduro in the head at home in a
high-rise complex of
free housing built
under Chavez Darwin
Ananda's fears a new
government would turn
their back on the
interests of the poor
in particular the
Mallory will is
young especially more
what has the revolution
and socialism
given me well this
humble home where I
am thanks to God
first into Chavez and
to Maduro is what
I always wanted a
decent home nothing
else you'd be my
mouth professor penfold says the
opposition should
not underestimate the
power of chavismo I
don't think you can
move out of this
situation without an
important fracture
go happening within
the government coalition
Guevara and the
opposition are
counting on government
dissidents to help
bring down Maduro the
idea is Galatea
that is to say that
every day there are
more players inside
the regime that moves
away from Maduro
but this way I'm gonna have to
powerfully knows
well done by a like I
did nothing but
until and if that
happens
Venezuela is stuck in poetic
deadlock it's it's
also a country and I
have to say this
with with horror that
can not stay in the
situation it is for
longer time taxi
driver vieta's can
hardly cope with
worries over the chaos
and insecurity and
her kids what an
employee for example
she escapes and
goes off to the
marches she says mommy
if I tell you I'm
going to the protest
you won't let me go
yet us knows that
when her daughter
runs off to marches
she always takes her
cap it's become her
way of checking in
on her daughter's
whereabouts I call
her brother I say go
to her room and see
if her hat is there
I understand her
as a mother how it
would be to receive
a call that your
daughter is dead or
your daughter was
attacked but even
so sometimes I go to
the protests
in fact she goes
several times a week
helping her University
peers who were
often injured on the
front line nagiyd
here he who tries
loses and we're going
to keep going until
we're able to get
out of this for
the PBS news hour
reporting with Bruno
Federico I'm Nando
drost in Caracas
[Music]
stay with us coming
up on the news hour
comedian Bill Cosby
heads to trial and a
man who has learned
to live a full life
without limbs but
first to a part of the
Trump agenda that
the administration
still has not been
able to implement his
travel ban on visitors
from six mostly
Muslim countries the
revised version of
the ban remains on
hold by federal court
order and the
president this morning
aired out his grievances
once again John
yang reports this
afternoon the White
House deputy press
secretary said it
didn't matter what
president Trump's
executive order on
immigration is called
I think that the president isn't
concerned with what
you call it he's
concerned with
national security and
protecting people
in this country this
morning the president
was very concerned
skating people the
lawyers and the
courts can call it
whatever they want
but I am calling
it what we need and
what it is a travel
ban in fact it was
his own aids or
refused to call it that
it's not a travel
ban it's a it's a
vetting system to
keep America safe
that's it plain and
simple not a travel
ban remember to
travel pause but the
president said for
90 days we were going
to pause in terms
of people from those
countries coming the
United States that
would give me time
to look at additional
vetting mr. Trump
also slammed his own
Justice Department
saying it should have
stuck with the original
executive order
not the watered-down
politically correct
current version even
though it was the
President himself
who revoked the
original version when
he signed the new
one mr. Trump has
asked the Justice
Department to seek a
quick Supreme Court
hearing to reinstate
the order after
lower courts blocked
it from taking
effect it's up to the
justices to decide
how quickly they'll
act for the PBS
newshour i'm john
yang separately
there's word tonight
that the FBI has
arrested a federal
contract employee on
charges of leaking
a secret document on
Russian election
hacking NBC News
reports that a Georgia
woman allegedly
gave the National
Security Agency
document to the
intercept an online man
zyne it says that
it shows Russian
military intelligence
engineered a
cyberattack on at least one u.s.
supplier of voting
software last year
hackers also tried
to dupe elections
officials into
handing over login
credentials it's the
first evidence that
Moscow tried to go
beyond swaying public
opinion and
interfere in election
machinery for more
on all this and more
we turn to politics
Monday with Amy
Walter of the cook
Political Report and
Tamara Keith of NPR
so Amy at am this is
a story that's
just been breaking
literally within
the last hour we
learned about this
online magazine Amy a
few hours ago but
now we're learning
about the arrests if
it is the case that
the Russians were
able to in some way
interfere or get
close to interfering
with the machinery
of an election what
does that mean well
that's just one more
piece of what has
been this never-ending
puzzle called the
Russian impact on this
election and what's
difficult about
sifting through all
of this Judy it's a
little bit like one
of those games where
there's a there's a
picture made up of a
lot of different
tiles you don't know
what that picture is
until you flip over
all the tiles to get
the picture and all
we're getting is one
tile here and one
tile there and one
tile over here so we
have little pieces
but we don't know
what the big picture
is and I don't know
that we're ever
going to find out the
big picture
then put on top of it all of the
politics around it
whether it's the
president saying he
doesn't know really
if the Russians
interfered in this the
push by Democrats to
really politicize a
lot of this the
Russian including
Hillary Clinton
who says that the
Russian interference
caused her the
election and now of
course we have James
Comey the FBI
director coming to the
hill to talk more
about this on Thursday
and speaking of
which Tim the White
House did announce
today as we reported
that the president
is not going to step
in and exert too what
we call executive
privilege to prevent
James Comey from
doing that now there
was a question of
whether they could
actually assert that
privilege and whether
they would succeed
but yes they're saying that the
president will not do that
there was also a
question of politically
whether it was a
good idea for the
president to try to
interfere with Comey
testifying because
that would just cause
a lot of people to
say well what is he
hiding and and and
Amy there was a lot
of speculation about
this people saying
if the President
did that it would be
explosive absolutely
I mean let him go
and and testify and
then respond to that
if you if you block
him from testifying
in the first place
the first thing
everybody's going to say
is well of course
the White House has
something to hide
that's why they don't
want him to testify
so let's go back to
Tam to this other
story we've been
dealing with for
several hours today and
that's the storm of
tweets that you just
heard John yang
reporting on from the
president today
basically doubling down
on his original
travel ban saying I
don't care what anybody calls it
I want the travel
ban and I don't like
what the Justice
Department did and so
on and so on
does he help himself
with this or is it
is there some risk
that a serious
question of you
lawyers would say many
lawyers would say
stop talking those
lawyers include
George Conway who is
someone who was up
for potentially a job
a high-level job in the Justice
Department pulled
out of that job last
week happens to
be the husband of
Kellyanne Conway
said in a series of
tweets basically the
president's tweets
may make people feel
good but they are
not helping his
legal case also the
lawyer who is
representing Hawaii in one
of these cases that
has has led to the
travel ban being
blocked essentially
said Wow Thank You
President Trump
you're certainly
helping us didn't
realize you were
going to be co-counsel
and that's what part
of the reason that
the courts did not
enact the travel ban
in the first place was based on
statements that
Trump made on the
campaign trail and
so it's clear that
his own words have
made this that much
more difficult that
they the actual text
of the of the ban is
as much an issue as
what he said in
his campaign about
wanting to ban Muslims
and now going to
Twitter and also
making the case against
himself so he has
made it that much
harder it's not to
get beyond just the
text of this and
on top of all this
at the same time
Tam Kellyanne Conway
whom you mentioned
a moment ago because
her husband was
tweeting criticism of
the president was
telling the reporters
this morning she was
interviewed on one
of the morning
television shows just
don't pay attention
to the tweet that
you should be
focused on what the
president's getting
done yeah why focus
on the tweets she
says well because they
are statements of
the President of the
United States and
when the President of
the United States
says something it
matters now sometimes
his statements
come on
you know letterhead
from the White House
that say this is an
official statement
of the President of
the United States
but the reality is
that often he goes on
Twitter and contradicts
the things that
are on the official
letterhead and and
really his tweets are are this
unprecedented access
to what is in the
mind of the President
of the United
States it is unfiltered
his spokeswoman
was asked today
you know are these
tweets being vetted
yet our lawyers
vetting the tweets
and she said I don't
think so so actually
this is what the
president thinks and says and it
shouldn't be any
different if he says it
on Twitter than if
he says it as a press
conference or if he
sent up something on
official letterhead
and I should say we
at the NewsHour
viewed the tweets as
another form of
statement a bromley
president from the
White House I mean
there are official
statements there
executive orders in
a number of other
ways they can give
interviews they can
make speeches and
Twitter is there's
another one of those
of communicates and
everything he says
as a private citizen
is very different
than when he is
President of the
United States no matter
what he says in what
venue he says it
carries the way to
the present States it
carries a weight of
being the leader of
this country though
I think that he
considers the tweets
to be sort of a
direct message to
his base whereas the
more official
statements are seen for
for a wider audience
but I think he sees
those tweets is
going directly to the
base going around the
media but everyone
else is watching
including leaders from
around the world everybody it is
watching who focuses on on this
administration quickly
Tim meantime the
White House was trying
today to regroup
they said this is going to be
infrastructure week
they had a little
briefing for the
news media where they
said we're going
to be focusing on a
plan to pour a lot
of effort and money
into rebuilding the nation's
infrastructure it's still
not clear about the
details and the cost
but they're trying
to change the subject
yeah infrastructure
week is going really
well it started
with the president
tweeting at 6:00 in
the morning about
something completely
unrelated to
infrastructure but
they did announce a
proposal on
privatizing air traffic
control the president
held a big flashy
signing ceremony to
sign a memo being
sent to Congress to
say that these are
the ideas that he
supports that's not a
bill signing that
is a memo signing so
so regrouping well
and for for President
Trump this should
be his biggest most
powerful statement
he was elected to
Congress as a
businessman as a deal
maker as a builder
of things to put
together an
infrastructure bill that
Democrats Republicans
can agree on that
he can promote this
should be one of the
easiest things for
him to do and yet
both by his own
tweet and by the fact
that this bill itself
as it stands is
not going to get
support from Democrats
also there is
infrastructure bill just
to be clear at this
point we'll keep
watching I know you
wiki's yes amy tam
thank you
[Music]
the trial of comedian
and actor Bill
Cosby got underway
in Pennsylvania today
Cosby who is now 79
has been accused by
more than 40 women
of sexual assault
over the course of
decades his legacy
has been under heavy
attack in recent
years but the charges
are old and in
many cases the
statute of limitations
has run out
the Pennsylvania
trial is the only one
to go to criminal
court if convicted
Cosby could face
prison time william
brangham has the story
this kate state this
case dates back to
2004 when Cosby
is alleged to have
assaulted andrea
constand who was then
an employee at
Temple University's
basketball program
prosecutors say Cosby
drugged an assaulted
constant in his
home Cosby has said
he had a consensual
extramarital
relationship with her and
has denied all
the allegations of
assault by numerous
other women Cosby
who starred as a
father and family man
in his hugely
popular 1980s sitcom
arrived at court
today with actress
keshia knight pulliam
in' who played one
of his daughters on
The Cosby Show Mary
Claire Dale of The
Associated Press has
long been covering
the case against
Cosby she filed
the motion that an
unsealed and an
older deposition that
Cosby gave in a civil
suit that's now a
key piece of evidence
in this trial she
joins me now from
outside the courthouse
in Norristown
Pennsylvania Mary Claire
thank you very much
for being here I
wonder if you could
just tell us first
off from the
prosecution's stance in
opening statements
today what lay out
the case that they
laid out against
Cosby today right
the case opened very
strong today lawyers
on both sides came
out swinging the
prosecution started by
talking about the key
issues in the case
drugs sex and the
issue of consent they
said that the
accuser in this case
andrea constand
could not have given
consent in the case
given that cosby by
his own words in
his own deposition
acknowledges giving
her three blue pills
before he went with
her on a couch and
molested her in her
words of course he
says that they had
consensual sex acts
on the couch that night but the
prosecution says that she was
frozen paralyzed by
the pills he gave
her unable to stop
him resist refuse or
give consent and
from the opening
statements on Cosby's
defense what's the
sense of how they're
going to try to
rebut these allegations
they're pointing
out discrepancies in
the women's various
statements over
time saying that the
details have changed
the dates have
changed in fact in
the continent for
example in the
constant statement to
police she initially
recalled the
incident occurring
in March of 2004 but
later told investigators
it was January
of 2004 so they're
pointing out you know
time discrepancies
other details and
they're saying
that both women had
consensual relationships
with Cosby they
said the Cosby and
andrea constand had a
romantic relationship
that spans at
least several evenings
that she had gone
to the casino in
Connecticut with him on
one trip had been
with him on several
nights for various
social occasions and
again that it was a
romantic and sensual
situation again
the prosecution is
saying that there's
no way she can give
consent after having
taken these pills
Andrea constants
case is obviously
echoed by dozens of
other women who have
said over the years
that Bill Cosby did
similar acts to them
I understand that
the first witness
today was one of those
other women can you
tell us what she
testified to today
yeah the first
witness called by
prosecutors was the
what we call a prior
bad act accuser
she's her name is
Kelly Johnson she
worked for Cosby's
agent at the William
Morris Agency in the 90s and she
described a similar
situation as to
konstanz a day where
she says she was
beckoned to Cosby's
bungalow at the
bel-air hotel in
about 1996 and says he
forced her to take
a pill a white pill
and then that she
says left her again
dizzy falling in and out of
consciousness she
says she later woke up
hours later perhaps
the next morning on
a bed with Cosby
where he was forcing
her to do a sex act
but she says she
really resisted
tried not to take the
pill
to put it under her
tongue only to have
him look at her
tongue and you know
insist on her swallowing
it she she says
she feared that she
would lose her job
that she liked
quite a bit at the
William Morris
Agency the defense
questioned her
timing they said that
there's a deposition
that exists I
believe in a
workers compensation
lawsuit she filed in
which she says that
she went to the hotel
with Cosby in 1990
so six years apart
on that they really
questioned her on
other details and she
says as for instance
they said didn't
you Cosby give you $400 for your
grandmother's doctor's
appointment she
did not testify to
that she says she
never remembers him
giving her any money
although she does
remember him referring
her grandmother to a doctor's
appointment so again
they're pointing
out the consistencies
some small some
maybe less small in
their statements and
while the prosecution
is trying to say
to the jury you really
have to look and
try to focus on the
differences between
the man and the actor
you saw on TV and
the roles that he
created I understand
that Cosby himself will not be
testifying but the
earlier deposition
that Cosby gave this
is the deposition
that you helped
unearth I understand
will be a key piece
of evidence here can
you tell us what is
in that deposition
right it was a it
was a deposition that
he gave in 2005 and
2006 when andrea
constand filed a
civil lawsuit after
prosecutors at the
time decided not to
charge Cosby in
the case so in that
deposition Cosby
says that he again
acknowledges having
a long series of
relationships with
young women actresses
waitresses flight
attendants various
women again he says they were he
considers them to be
consensual many of
those women have now
come forward to say
that they believe
they were drugged and
molested one of the
big highlights from
that deposition was
Cosby acknowledging
that in the 70s he
got quaaludes a very
powerful sedative
that the u.s. later
banned he says he
obtained them from his
doctor at least seven
prescriptions he
says he got them
you know in his own
name but get collected
them to give to
women before sex and
that was one of the
things that led
prosecutors into 2015
when this came to
light to reopen the
case and realize they
still had time to
to charge Cosby they
arrested him days
before the statute
of limitations ran in
late 2015
all right Mary
Claire Dale of The
Associated Press thanks so much
and we'll be back
shortly to kick off a
series on living
with disabilities
starting with the
inspirational story of
a man who has learned
Drive swim and fly
airplanes all without
arms and legs but
first take a moment
to hear from your
local PBS station
it's a chance to offer
your support which helps to keep
programs like ours on the air
[Music]
for those stations
still with us opera
lovers were shocked
when a New York
Times profile of
renowned soprano Renee
Fleming suggested
that she was nearing
the end of her
storied career in fact
her life in the music
world is far from
over just this past
weekend Fleming
partnered with the
director of the
National Institutes
of Health to explore
the connections
between music and
medicine during an
event at Washington
DC's Kennedy Center
it's one example of
the many projects
Renee Fleming plans to
take on in the coming
years she recently
told Jeffrey Brown in New York
[Music]
[Applause]
it is perhaps Renee
Fleming's most
renowned role the
marshal in a beautiful
but aging noblewoman
who loves and loses
a much younger man
in regard Strauss's
opera der rosenkavalier
this has been my
home since 1992 and
one day when people
said where do you
like to sing the most
I always said the
met because it was my
home this may be
the last time Renee
Fleming sings this
opera after some 70
performances over
more than two decades
but let's make one
thing clear this diva
is not departing no
no no that's a very
exciting headline
and certainly I'm
saying goodbye to
the Marschallin and
their Rosenkavalier
and to the bulk of
the repertoire that
I've sung at the mat
so that's already a
sad farewell and a
timely one but I'm
it doesn't really
change my schedule
very much I'm in
great voice I'm a
lifelong gregarious
experience or of new
things now 58 and
the mother of two
adult daughters
Fleming will continue
to perform in
concerts on stages
around the world and
she's eager to
work with composers
writing new works
including one by Kevin
puts with words
drawn from letters of
artist Georgia O'Keeffe
she's even stepping
onto a new stage
this fall making
her Broadway musical
debut in carousel
which she sang for
President Obama's
first inauguration but
she's also taken on
new offstage roles
including as creative
consultant to the
Lyric Opera of Chicago
and to polyphony
a group bringing
together Jewish and
Arab children in
Israel through music
and she's participating
in a project
with the National
Institutes of Health
and the Kennedy
Center to study the
influence of music
on the brain when you
start out the ambition
is powerful and
it's a driving force
and you have a lot
to accomplish and
and to get there just
to get to the top
and at this point I
think it's it's a
really wonderful place
to be to begin to
think about okay what
do I want to do now
how do I want to
spend my time the
daughter of two music
teachers in Rochester New York
Fleming first gained
attention in the
late 1980s and then
widespread fame in
the 90s performing a
variety of roles in
leading opera houses
around the world
can I cut that opera
lyrics she also
became the rare
classical singer to
crossover into popular
culture singing
David Letterman's top
10 list performing
the national anthem
at Super Bowl xlviii
and of course serving
as host for PBS is
great performances
welcome to our
premiere performance
each he told me
does bring changes
one is the dearth of
roles for her voice in the Opera
repertoire
I'm a lyric soprano
they're young women
you know if they're
sort of between the
ages of 17 and 25
and so even if my
voice can still sing
these roles really
well which some of
them I can still sing
it's it sort of
doesn't really make
sense in the day of
HD broadcasts and
the day of people
really expecting a
visual experience
as well what happens
to your voice as you
get older you don't
have with the
resilience the physical
resilience so if I sing a big
performance I don't
want to do it again
the next
you know it's like we are the
weightlifters of
singers and so that
weightlifters means
we are because it's
power singing
imagine four thousand
seats an orchestra
and a chorus and we
have to be heard over there no
amplification when
you're young you can
keep doing it and
doing it doing it some
part of it is that just sheer
physicality absolutely
the power exactly
she's experimented
with different kinds
of music making a
rock album dark hope
[Music]
and she's curated
festivals celebrating
the diversity of
American voices so many
projects so much
presence so it was
striking to hear
as she showed me
costumes from der
rosenkavalier how
several bouts with
stage fright almost
derailed her career
that same voice that
drives you to achieve
and to get better
is also sometimes
telling you you're not
good enough there's
kind of doubts if
you don't feel that
you can do it or you
feel that people
are judging you too
harshly it can
quickly spiral into a
situation where you
don't want to be on
stage at all and now
when I watch you I
mean you know you
don't feel that
anymore do you I
love it I love it
because getting
through that the last
time I just said no
I I am grateful to
be here
now Renee Fleming
says she wants to use
her celebrity to
impart lesson she's
learned including
the value of the arts
for all Americans
as we looked at
portraits of some
of the Mets greatest
stars including
Fleming herself she
showed me a photo a
fan had given her of
the would-be diva
in a seventh grade
theater production
and this was my first
musical I Swiss
Eliza Doolittle in my
fair lady you remember
that girl yes yes
and partly because
she looks so much
like one of my
daughters that's sort of
a shock um it's
interesting because I
can see the shyness
there you know and
that need to sort of
somehow get out of
myself and I think
performance was a way
of doing it one last
performance in this
role with many more
to come for the PBS
Newshour
I'm jeffrey Brown
at the Metropolitan
Opera
[Music]
this week we're going
to begin a special
series about living
with disabilities
from our network of
student reporting
labs around the
country the series
called limitless
includes more than 30
stories written
filmed and edited
entirely by middle
and high school
students tonight
we learn about Ryan
Hudson Peralta is
a web designer in
Detroit who was
born with congenital
limb deficiency the
video was produced
by his son Noah and the student
reporting lab at
Frederick the Pankow
Center High School
in Clinton Michigan
we kind of figured
he was here for a
purpose
everyone in the
world's gonna know his
name he is different
than anybody else
there's no better word than
inspirational so he
inspires everybody
inspires me Ryan
has taught me how to
not worry about the
past don't focus on
the future but enjoy
every moment of the
present my name is
Ryan Hudson Peralta I
was born with a
disability called
congenital limb deficiency which
basically is the
shortening of the arms
and the legs and in
my case I was born
without hands when
I was born the
doctors told my
parents that I would I
would never drive
a car or go to a
regular school they
said I'd never have
a family so yeah
everyone pretty much
doubted me when I was a kid
well after Ryan was
born the doctors
wouldn't show me him
and all of a sudden
they covered up the
mirror and told my
husband and mr. Paul
to leave the room
and I didn't understand
why and I said
where's my baby I
want to see my baby
and I kind of wanted
to shock and they
told me something was
wrong with his arm
and then something
was wrong with this
leg they said well
we'll let you see him
in a little bit I
just looked at his
face and he's a fighter
actually I think
I saw Ryan Hudson
Peralta before I heard
about him so and I
asked somebody I said
his way is he working
for us what's he
doing and I think
somebody said well
he's a designer you
know the first thing
you ask yourself is
you know how does a
man who doesn't have
limbs design stuff
on a computer but
that's just really the
first question
because then you see
everything else he
does and you keep
asking how does he do
that has to do that
how they do that
sooner or later
you stop asking the
question because he
just figures out a
way to do it it's
a so it's truly
remarkable to me and
very shocking and
also inspirational
at the same time
never heard him
complain about nothing
he has to work twice
as hard to do daily
tasks like to send
a text message or
just anything and
he never complains
about that at all
nothing as a kid I
started to draw with
my pencil between
my my feet and then
I I really realized
one day that is going
to be pretty tough
when I go into a bank
and have to hop up
on the counter to
sign the sign that
deposit slip so I
moved the pencil from
my feet to my chin
and shoulder and I
started to draw that
way 2013 I started
working for Quicken
Loans and the family
companies as a web
and user interface
designer and about
nine months after
working there I got
an email from Dan
Gilbert Steam asking
me to speak at
these events he has
ever about every
month we want Ryan
to talk about our
philosophy and
how that plays out
through him and his
story and he does a
great job because
again for everybody in
the audience is
probably their first
time seeing Ryan and
and just saw such a
unique individual
that every time people
see him and see
he's just a regular
normal guy who just
gets it done just
you know different
kinds of challenges I
think that inspires
everybody in a big
big way he is a
testament a living
testament to that
with the way that he
interacts with people
the way that he
approaches work the
way that he builds
community around him
he understands the
power of relationship
and he also
understands the
power of people bad
things are going to
happen to you every
day in your life and
no matter what if
you stay positive
you're going to get
through I mean I could
look at every day
of my life as something
negative being
born without hands
it's not the greatest
thing that could
happen to somebody but
I have a choice every
day that I wake up
I can either look at
myself as you know
a poor guy with a
disability or somebody
that can go out and
inspire people and
what an inspiration
Ryan is remarkable
you can see more of
these stories from
young journalists
across the country at
student reporting labs org
and that's the NewsHour
for tonight I'm
Judy Woodruff you can
join us online and
again right here
tomorrow evening for
all of us at the PBS
Newshour thank you
and we'll see you soon
PBS station from
viewers like you thank
you
you're watching PBS